How to Cook Asparagus - Easy! by In The Kitchen With Matt (http://www.instructables.com/id/How-to-Cook-Asparagus-Easy/?ALLSTEPS)

Asparagus is one of my favorite vegetables. So in this instructable, I will show you how to cook asparagus. Asparagus is super healthy for you, it goes great with a piece of chicken, or pork, and many other things. It is easy to make so let's get cooking!

If you have any comments or questions put them down below and I will get back to you as soon as I can. I enjoy your comments!

Follow the easy steps or watch the short under 4 minute video tutorial or better yet do both! :)

Step 1: Ingredients

Ingredients:

Asparagus (washed and dried)
Olive oil
salt
pepper
garlic powder
crushed red pepper (optional - for some kick)
Tools:

Grill pan, or sauté skillet, or use your BBQ. : You can find one here on Amazon, or Walmart, etc.
tongs
dish
knife

Step 2: Trim Asparagus

First we need to get our grill pan or sauté pan on the stove, and set it medium to medium-high. If you are using a sauté pan add a couple tablespoons of olive oil to the pan as well. Now let's trim off the woody unappealing ends of the asparagus. You will wind up cutting 1.5 to 3 inches off. It will also help the asparagus to cook more even, since the ends are usually much larger then the tips in diameter.

Step 3: Add seasonings and mix

Now we add olive oil, not a ton just enough to coat the asparagus and then a generous amount of salt, pepper, and garlic powder. If you are using a sauté pan add fresh garlic to the oil that you have in there. I don't normally use fresh garlic on my grill pan, although you could. Now mix the asparagus and seasonings together well with your hand.

Step 4: Cook them

Now we place the asparagus on our hot pan and let them cook. We will turn them frequently. On a grill pan or BBQ they will get nice grill marks on them. The asparagus will turn a darker green color and it will become limp, when they are done cooking. Cook them a little less for more crunchy asparagus and more for a more soft asparagus. I like it right in between personally. It is usually 2 to 3 minutes per side, for about 5 minutes total with several turns in there.
